---
layout: post
title: List of installed programs
category: perl
perex: >
  This shows how to get list of installed programs on Windows machines.
tags:
  - perl
  - wmic
  - one-liner
---
Thanks to [this blog entry][1]
(and one comment below) I learned about existence of nice tool shipped by 
default with Windows installation - wmic ([Windows Management Instrumentation Command][2]).

It can gather various types of information from your workstation, like example below.
Running this from command-line get you list of all installed programs with their version,
separated by tab.

{% highlight bash %}
wmic product list /format:csv.xsl | perl -F, -lanE "say qq{$F[1]\t$F[10]}"
{% endhighlight %}

Part by part. `wmic product list /format:csv.xsl` returns list of programs
installed, formatted with `csv.xsl` XSLT template. Output is like this:

    Node,Description,IdentifyingNumber,InstallDate,....
    BVR,Mobipocket Reader 6.2,{342126E1-173C-4585-.....

The columns are:

    [ 0] Node
    [ 1] Description
    [ 2] IdentifyingNumber
    [ 3] InstallDate
    [ 4] InstallLocation
    [ 5] InstallState
    [ 6] Name
    [ 7] PackageCache
    [ 8] SKUNumber
    [ 9] Vendor
    [10] Version

So next part is running perl one-liner, processing this csv. Since there is
not much escaping we can safely split line on comma (`-F,` switch), process
each line with code specified on command-line (`-nE` switch) with automatical
removing of trailing newlines (`-la` switch). 

The code is just printing column 1 with description and column 10 with version
separated by tab. Note that Windows does not support single quoting, so I had
to use `qq` synonym to quotes in perl code.

[1]: http://blogs.perl.org/users/initself/2010/11/listing-all-installed-programs-in-windows-xp.html
[2]: http://technet.microsoft.com/en-us/library/bb742610.aspx
