---
layout: post
title: KiokuDB for persistent storage
tags:
  - perl
  - KiokuDB
  - Moose
  - persistent storage
---
I learned about KiokuDB few years ago, but so far did not have a good project 
to give it a try. Recently I started working on small web application to 
connect JIRA we use for end-user support with Trac that we use to control the 
development. It will be utility mostly for my own use, so I can also take 
opportunity to try out fancy technology. 

The main goal of the app is to keep track of JIRA tickets analysis, with focus 
to make sure that all development tickets are covered in Tracs. 

Both JIRA and Tracs are outside of my control and pretty far network-wise, 
which makes them rather slow for use. I already have a mirror of trac 
databases. Since we use many instances of Trac for various projects, the mirror 
is putting all data into single mysql database. I can easily find any details 
about any ticket ever created. 

The JIRA is new addition into the mix. Fortunately there is a REST API provided 
and I am able to get the data of all issues opened for our team. Returned JSON 
data can be easily inflated into Moose objects via `coercions` and `init_arg` 
setting of attributes. 

Objects does not apparently need any change to be stored. We need to init the 
instance of KiokuDB and create new scope that keeps live references to live 
objects: 

```perl
my $database = KiokuDB->connect(
    "dbi:mysql:host=localhost;database=jira",
    user     => '**username**',
    password => '**password**',
    create   => 1,

    extract  => Search::GIN::Extract::Class->new,
    columns => [
        updated => { is_nullable => 1, data_type => "varchar" },
        status  => { is_nullable => 1, data_type => "varchar" },
    ],
);

my $scope = $database->new_scope;
```

Now it is rather easy to store any Moose objects into the database with

```perl
my $myself = JIRA::User->new(
    name        => 'bvr',
    displayName => 'Beaver',
);
my $reporter = JIRA::User->new(
    name        => 'Someone',
    displayName => 'Some One',
);
my $issue = JIRA::Issue->new(
    key      => '201',
    summary  => 'Important problem',
    assignee => $myself,
    reporter => $reporter,
);

$database->store($issue->key => $issue);
```

Whole graph based on the issue is stored in the database, including both
related users. Issue has assigned the id from calling **store** method, user
ids are determined automatically (as UUIDs).

Retrieval is also similar:

```perl
my $issue_found = database->lookup('201');
```

During same session (`$scope` still active), this will return back 
reference to same object. Otherwise the object gets created.
