---
layout: post
title: Outlook settings
published: yes
tags:
  - Outlook
  - Email
  - Settings
---
Recently my laptop at work had been replaced with new one, so it required me do to migration and setup it as I like. In **Outlook** this means following settings:

 - In **File/Options/Mail**
   - set monospace font for plain text messages. Many notifications I receive format data into tables, so with proportional font it does not look good. **Stationery and Fonts/Composing and reading plain text messages** -> **Consolas**
   - disable most of AutoCorrect/AutoFormat options. Editor **Options/Proofing/AutoCorrect Options** -> uncheck almost everything in **AutoFormat** and **AutoCorrect** tabs
 - Set all views to normal grid with tighter spacing. **View/Change View**, also prevent compact layout in **View Settings/Other Settings/Use compact layout for widths smaller than ...**
 - Use Outlook Contacts instead of Contact Cards. The contact dialog allows you to see various extra fields like Alias, where we have stored the company id. This makes **Search People** in **Home** tab much more useful
   - Set `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\common\contactcard`, DWORD: `TurnOnLegacyGALDialog`, Value: 1 (enable)
   - Set `HKEY_CURRENT_USER\Software\Microsoft\Office\16.0\common\contactcard`, DWORD: `TurnOffHoverFunctionality`, Value: 1 (turn off) 
 - Enable **View/To-Do Bar/Tasks**
 - Add Quick Access buttons:
   - **Today**
   - **Tomorrow**
   - **No date**
   - **Mark Complete**
 - Setup the rules to move notification into specific directories (this was automatically transferred via Exchange)

With this settings I can do my version of [Get Things Done (GTD)][1] handling of email and overall work effectively with the email.

[1]: https://gettingthingsdone.com/what-is-gtd/
